Welcome back. In this video,
you're going to learn
about a special type of
neural network known as
the Siamese network.
It is a neural
network made up of
two identical neural networks
which are merged at the end.
This type of architecture has
many applications in NLP.
In this video, you'll see
the different examples
where you can use it.
Consider the following question.
How old are you?, and,
what is your age?
You can see that these questions
don't have any words in common.
However, they both
mean the same thing.
On the other hand, if you were
to look at the
following questions,
where are you from?, and,
where are you going?, you can
see that the first three
words are the same.
However, the last word
completely changes the
meaning of each question.
This example shows
that comparing
meaning is not as simple
as just comparing words.
Coming up, you're
going to see how
you can use Siamese networks to
compare the meaning
of word sequences
and identify
question duplicates,
which is a very important
NLP application
at the core of platforms like
Stack Overflow or Quora.
Before these platforms allow
you to post a new question,
they want to be sure that
your question hasn't
already been posted
by somebody else.
Now take this sentence,
I'm happy because I'm learning,
and consider it
in the context of
sentiment analysis and
binary classification.
Now in training a
classification algorithm,
you discover what
features give this
statement a positive
or negative sentiment.
With Siamese networks,
you'll be aiming to identify
what's makes two input
similar and what
makes them different.
Take a look at these
two questions.
What is your age?,
and, how old are you?
When you build a Siamese model,
you're trying to
identify the difference
or the similarity between
these two questions.
You do this by computing
a single similarity score
representing the relationship
between the two questions.
Based on that score, when
compared against a threshold,
you can predict whether these
two are the same or different.
Siamese networks have
many applications in NLP.
You can use them to authenticate
handwritten checks
by determining
whether two signatures
are the same or not.
You can use them to identify
question duplicates
on platforms like Quora
or Stack Overflow.
You can use them in search
aging queries to predict whether
a new query is similar to
the one that was
already executed.
These are just a few examples,
but there are many
more applications
of Siamese networks in NLP.
You can use Siamese networks and
many types of NLP applications.
In the next video,
I will walk you through
the architecture
that is used in
this type of model,
and I'll show you how you
can use it in a text.
I'll see you in the next video.